## 1.Explain what OpenCV is and its role in robot vision.
#### OpenCV, an open-source computer vision and machine learning software library, provides a common infrastructure for computer vision applications and accelerates the adoption of machine perception in commercial products.  With over 2500 optimised algorithms encompassing both classic and state-of-the-art computer vision and machine learning techniques, OpenCV offers a wide range of functionalities.  These include face and object detection, video action classification, camera and object tracking, 3D model extraction, stereo camera point cloud generation, image stitching for high-resolution scene creation, image database similarity searches, red-eye removal, eye tracking, scenery recognition, and augmented reality marker overlay.  OpenCV boasts a large user community of hundreds of thousands and boasts monthly downloads exceeding 40 million.  Its extensive use spans companies, research groups, hobbyists, and even governmental bodies like ISRO, DRDO and NASA.It has C++, Python, Java and MATLAB interfaces and supports Windows, Linux, Android and Mac OS. OpenCV is used to take and manipulate real time input and feed it to the robot's processing unit, which stores a code with all the logic and pins of the microcontroller. We can use many of OpenCv library's functions to use real time visual data and perform operations on it like recognizing and tracking objects, face/feature detection, navigating and mapping, colour based tracking, etc. OpenCV is a very useful and important piece of software in today's world and it has helped users to easily and deal with visual input continuously unlike the cpu intensive code that was used before.

## 2. Basic image processing tasks
#### There are many basic image processing tasks that OpenCV offer:
- Reading Images :
